We're now going to cover versioning.
So as AWS web page mentions versioning is a means of keeping multiple variants of an object
in the same bucket.
So what that means is that every time you upload and change a objects the previous version and the current
version are retained.
And that means that you can go back to a previous version if you need to.
It also means that if you delete an object a delete marker is put on the object and you can then delete
the delete marker and actually retrieve the objects again.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go into the console and actually set this up.
The first thing to know is that buckets can be in one of free states.
So beautiful a bucket does not have versioning enabled.
You can then enable it and then you can suspend it.
You cannot return back to the original state.
So let's go over to S3 and we're going to create a bucket and I'm going to call this DCT test versioning
and we're going to click Create
now to make things a bit clearer.
I'm going to enable public access and I need to confirm
and then I'm going to add a bucket policy which allows that public access.
This is so that we can actually retrieve the files publicly
so that should give us public access to the bucket.
So versioning is enabled through properties and we can click here and enable versioning and then afterwards
we can suspend it again.
But like I said you cannot get back to the original state.
So we're going to enable versioning for this bucket.
So again to upload a file now and it's just a simple text file
and you'll see we have this version's information now and we can click show versions and we only have
one and it shows us the latest version.
And if we click on that file we can open it up and it just says My name is Dot dot dot.
So let's go back and we're going to go into our buckets and we're going to upload the file again.
But just quickly I'm going to change the file.
I'm going to add my name into it on another screen and I'll just save that file.
And so I'm going to upload the new file which is still using the same file name
and so let's go into the file now and this time it says My name is Neal so let's head back and see the
bucket level we can look at the versions so we can now see that there's the older version and the newer
version
and what will happen is if we delete the newer version
and head here and open the file again we've turned back to the previous version and then the other thing
we can do is we can delete this file
and then if we click on Show we can see that the file the original file is here and then there's a delete
marker and I can delete the delete marker
and now the file is back again so that's how versioning works.
Now if we come back to this Web site one of the other things that's important to know about versioning
is the difference between versioning and MFA delete so you can optionally add MFA delete as well and
MFA delete is used to add additional security sites using multi factual friends location.
In other words a device such as this one.
So you can pair that up with versioning and not only does that enable MFA for when you delete object
versions but also if you wanted to change the versioning states of the bucket.
So those are a couple of security features that you can use to try and protect your objects from deletion
and to be able to go back to older versions of documents.